A class is a structural blueprint for which classes are created from. A real-world example of classes could be a class titled “Pies.” Classes can also be more narrow or broad in their scope, such as two classes titled “Food” and “Fruit Pies.” Pies, Food, and Fruit Pies can all be classes but share similar behaviors, and the characteristics that qualify them as similar or different are based on their parameters. 

In my file, I declared two classes titled ‘Dog’ and ‘Stray’. They are similar in that they introduce two similar objects, but they differ in their respective parameter variables. The Dog class requires a name, breed, gender, and age of the object as these are common descriptors for introducing one’s own pet dog. Similarly, the Stray class introduces a dog, but the characteristics (parameters) of the Stray dog are different. For example, the Stray class has a ‘nickname’ variable as the Stray likely does not yet have a permanent name and is given an approximate age because identifiers such as exact breed and age may not be reasonably known by the adoption agency. Because of this, the parameters for the Stray class are the nickname, gender, age (approximate), and weight. Both the Dog and Stray classes include toString() instructions that print an introduction of the dog or stray dog.

An object is an instance of a class bound by its class’ parameter variables. In my file, I have created one object of the Dog class and two of the Stray class. When declaring these objects, it is important to note that the parameter variables for the Dog and Stray classes are different, so different information must be provided between the Dog object ‘spots’ and the two Stray objects ‘rufus’ and ‘patty’. The two classes contain toString() instructions that provide different outputs using the parameters of each class. 